# XIC_formating: READ ME

**@uthor: Pierre-Alexandre HO**  
*Master Student Erasmus Mundus Chemoinformatics+*  
Creation: February 2024

## Context

The code was created  streamline the bioinformatics pipeline of the IMBC proteomics lab.  
It reprocesses the export file generated by the Prostar software for DDA XIC or DIA XIC analysis. This export is an large Excel file not user-friendly.  
The code outputs an Excel file formatted according to the IBMC lab's template, including data analysis and visualization such as:
- 2D PCA & 3D PCA
- Heatmap
- Volcano plot
- Anova analysis

Additionally, the program can reprocess Proline repport and GO annotation for supplementary data

  ## Repository Content

  This repository contain the python files for the excution of the code:  
  -  **XICformate.py => The main script for the execution of the program**
  -  import_package.py => Module containing the packages used by the program
  -  dataframe_manipulation => Module with functions to manipulate pandas DataFrame
  -  my_stats.py => Module with functions for statistical calculation
  -  importation_excel => Module to import Excel file.
  -  output_excel.py => Module to generate Excels files
  -  visualization.py => Module to generate graphs

The Excel template used by the program is also provided.

A protocol, *240209-XICFormat_README*, has been published. It was written for non-Python users and serves as a user guide.
This guide includes instructions for installing and using the program, along with a detailed explanation of the code including the package versions used.

The poster presented during the 2024 Chemoinformatics Summer School in Strasbourg provides additional details about the proteomics pipeline.

*NOTE: At the moment, I do not have authorization to publish examples of the export*
